# Color schemes

[MantineProvider](https://mantine.dev/theming/mantine-provider/) manages the color scheme context in your application. You can configure the default color scheme value with the `defaultColorScheme` prop; possible values are `light`, `dark`, and `auto` (system color scheme is used). The default value is `light`.

## [data-mantine-color-scheme attribute](#data-mantine-color-scheme-attribute)

When [MantineProvider](https://mantine.dev/theming/mantine-provider/) is mounted, it sets a `data-mantine-color-scheme` attribute on the `<html />` element to the value that the user has previously selected or to the value of the `defaultColorScheme` prop. The `data-mantine-color-scheme` attribute is used in all component styles to determine which colors each component should use.

## [use-mantine-color-scheme hook](#use-mantine-color-scheme-hook)

The `useMantineColorScheme` hook can be used to get and set the current color scheme value:

## [use-computed-color-scheme hook](#use-computed-color-scheme-hook)

`useComputedColorScheme` returns a computed color scheme value—it returns either `light` or `dark`. It can be used to implement color scheme toggle logic:

## [Transitions during color scheme change](#transitions-during-color-scheme-change)

By default, transitions on all elements are disabled when the color scheme changes to avoid inconsistent animations. To enable transitions during color scheme changes, set the `keepTransitions: true` option on the `useMantineColorScheme` hook:

## [Color scheme value caveats](#color-scheme-value-caveats)

By default, the color scheme value is stored in local storage, and its value is saved in state before the component is mounted to avoid a flash of inaccurate color scheme. This means that the color scheme value can be different on the client and server, as the server does not have access to local storage and always uses the default value.

If you have server-side rendering in your application (for example, if you use [Next.js](https://mantine.dev/guides/next/) or [React Router](https://mantine.dev/guides/react-router/)), then you cannot use the `colorScheme` value in your application to avoid hydration issues. Instead, you can use the `dark` and `light` mixins from [postcss-preset-mantine](https://mantine.dev/styles/postcss-preset/) to generate styles that will hide elements based on the color scheme value:

> **colorScheme for client-only applications**
>
> You can safely use the `colorScheme` value in client-only applications (for example, Vite or create-react-app applications). In this case, there is no hydration, and thus no hydration error can occur.

## [ColorSchemeScript](#colorschemescript)

The `ColorSchemeScript` component renders a script tag that sets the `data-mantine-color-scheme` attribute on the `<html />` element to the user's selected value or to the `defaultColorScheme` prop value before hydration. It is used to avoid a flash of inaccurate color scheme in server-side rendered applications, for example [Next.js](https://mantine.dev/guides/next/) or [React Router](https://mantine.dev/guides/react-router/). Follow the framework-specific guides to learn where to render the `ColorSchemeScript` component.

You can add any additional props to the `<script />` tag generated by the `ColorSchemeScript` component, for example, you can add a [nonce](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/nonce) attribute:

## [Auto color scheme](#auto-color-scheme)

Set `defaultColorScheme="auto"` on `MantineProvider` and `ColorSchemeScript` to use the system color scheme. In this case, the color scheme value will be controlled by the user's OS:

## [Color scheme manager](#color-scheme-manager)

By default, the color scheme value is stored in local storage, but you can implement your own color scheme manager to store the value in any other external storage.

A color scheme manager must have the following methods:

Usually, it's better to wrap the color scheme manager in a creator function to provide a way to configure it. Default local storage-based color scheme manager example:

Then the custom color scheme manager can be passed to [MantineProvider](https://mantine.dev/theming/mantine-provider/):

## [Default color scheme](#default-color-scheme)

The default color scheme value is used when the user has not selected any color scheme yet. It is required to be set both on [MantineProvider](https://mantine.dev/theming/mantine-provider/) and `ColorSchemeScript`. If `defaultColorScheme` is not set, then `light` is used.

## [Force color scheme](#force-color-scheme)

You can force the color scheme value to be either `light` or `dark` with `forceColorScheme` prop. It is required to be set both on [MantineProvider](https://mantine.dev/theming/mantine-provider/) and `ColorSchemeScript`. If `forceColorScheme` is set, then `defaultColorScheme` and `colorSchemeManager` are ignored. When `forceColorScheme` is set, it's not possible to change the color scheme value with the `setColorScheme` function.

## [lightHidden and darkHidden props](#lighthidden-and-darkhidden-props)

All Mantine components support `lightHidden` and `darkHidden` props that can be used to hide a component in a specific color scheme:

## [With disabled JavaScript](#with-disabled-javascript)

If you need to support users with disabled JavaScript, you need to set the `data-mantine-color-scheme` attribute on the `<html />` element manually.

Example with Next.js app router that supports disabled JavaScript:
